# ACTIONS



If anything, the action is the most basic tool when it comes to Redux. When we say actions, people might be worried assume someting very complex, but thankfully our fears are ridiculous when we carefully examine what an action is.



An action is nothing more than a packet of information that tells the store what it needs to do. Update the state, call asynchronous code (...you need thunk or saga for this), and etc. For Redux, the actions are generated by a function of your design, and for those of you who are ambitious that just learned how to create classed, just avoid that.



No.



Give it up.



There are ways to use classes, but Redux follows functional programming, and classes can create some chaos that you don't expect. It has to do with this ```this``` context, and ```prototypal inheritance```. We're not here to do that.



Enough digressing,  you're generator must return an object. That's it. Well the action returned ABSOLUTELY MUST ALWAYS come with a ```type``` property. You can add any other ```key - value``` pair after that.



---

```Javscript

const actionGenerator = data => ({

    type: "EXAMPLE_TYPE",

    data, // ES6 => same thing as { data: data } - neat huh?

]);

```

This returns:

```Javascript

{

    type: "EXAMPLE_TYPE", // necessity

    data: "SOME SORT OF DATA: String, number, object/hash, array, etc.", // optional

}

```



Notice that the returned value is an ```object``` with a ```type``` property. Beating a dead horse here. The ```data``` can be anything



---

Wait...so if the actionGenerator only **GENERATES** an action, how does the Redux ```store``` get this information? You can thank the ```dispatch``` for that. We'll be talking about the dispatch later, but long story short, it **DISPATCHES** the action to the ```Reducer```.



If this is weird just imagine this, I hope you remember how to send mail. You want to send a letter to your friend, so you write-up the letter (```data```), and then place it in the envelope (```object```). Now the post-office/post-man (```reducer```) will reject the letter, if there is not an address on it (```type```). You don't need to put anything in the letter, but you absolutely need an address for it be delivered.



Now you can generate the action, but if you don't dispatch it to the store, then it's like you took your letter and immediately threw it in the trash.